# Senior Research Catherine, Vinay, Nick

https://drive.google.com/drive/folders/1Q8wOiFEQWwMfE7tW3TFKjoPLq4ogKifL?usp=sharing -- captured packets

 
Objective/Hypothesis: 
In this research project, the objective is to compare the direct effects when considering the use of a VPN - specifically, to see how using a VPN while streaming popular series on Netflix will change the watching experience. Our goal is to provide evidence that the use of a VPN will first allow users to view geo-blocked content and secondly, they will then be able to access said content safely and securely. 
Background: 
Computer Information/Data Protection is not a new concept, as it has been a very important process that has kept the idea of technology growing. Without proper protection, many features of a basic computer would be lost - we upload information, and in return, we have the basic expectation that the information that is given will not be released to the public - or other sources that it was not intended for. 
While many methods can be implemented in an attempt to protect any (and all) data - the focus that this project has will be on a Virtual Private Network (from here on referred to as a VPN). A VPN works as a tunnel to cover all data as it is released to larger sources/across the internet.  When a VPN service is turned on, it creates an encrypted tunnel between yourself and the remote server operated by the VPN service. Therefore, all internet traffic is routed through this - so all data is secure from any unwanted audiences along the way. Because your traffic is exiting the VPN server, your computer appears to have the IP address of the said server, masking your identity and location. 
For a more specific example, a VPN can be used through something as simple as connecting to a public Wi-Fi spot. Because this is a public likely heavily-trafficked network, you will never know who is on the network, and what they are doing with your private information. The email that you are sending while connected to that network may have an intended audience but - because of the openness of the network, it could easily end up in the wrong hands. 
If this email was attacked during the transition from your desktop to the intended parties, it could reflect terribly on your safety protocols. If you were to connect to a VPN before connecting to this public network, it will put a presence of security through any data that is used during the time you are connected to the network. 
Significance: 
The importance of Virtual Private Networks will only increase over time as more and more people inevitably gain access to the internet. VPN’s are useful for numerous activities online that range from casually browsing the internet to preventing censorship from authoritative governments with different agendas. Throughout this project, we will focus on geo-blocked content. 
While the internet allows you to access websites from across the world, some sites prevent access to certain content depending on your region. This practice is not limited to countries with governments actively censoring content online like Russia and China but is practiced in nearly all developed countries.
Websites like Netflix, Youtube, Apple, Amazon, and even airline companies that sell domestic tickets at a much bigger price if you live in a relatively privileged country. Geo-blocking may prevent those that travel to access the same content that they have already rented or purchased solely based on them being in a different country. Or in the EU, it can prevent some consumers from accessing works that are available to other EU consumers or preventing them from accessing works outside of their residence location. [5] 
Our goal is to provide evidence of a VPN allowing users to access geo-blocked content online as well as securely and safely accessing all content. 
